README.md, before:

# Stable Diffusion web UI
A browser interface based on Gradio library for Stable Diffusion.

![](txt2img_Screenshot.png)

Check the [custom scripts](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Custom-Scripts) wiki page for extra scripts developed by users.

## Features
[Detailed feature showcase with images](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Features):
- Original txt2img and img2img modes
- One click install and run script (but you still must install python and git)
- Outpainting
- Inpainting
- Color Sketch
- Prompt Matrix
- Stable Diffusion Upscale
- Attention, specify parts of text that the model should pay more attention to
    - a man in a ((tuxedo)) - will pay more attention to tuxedo
    - a man in a (tuxedo:1.21) - alternative syntax
    - select text and press ctrl+up or ctrl+down to automatically adjust attention to selected text (code contributed by anonymous user)
- Loopback, run img2img processing multiple times
- X/Y plot, a way to draw a 2 dimensional plot of images with different parameters
- Textual Inversion
    - have as many embeddings as you want and use any names you like for them
    - use multiple embeddings with different numbers of vectors per token
    - works with half precision floating point numbers
    - train embeddings on 8GB (also reports of 6GB working)
- Extras tab with:
    - GFPGAN, neural network that fixes faces
    - CodeFormer, face restoration tool as an alternative to GFPGAN
    - RealESRGAN, neural network upscaler
    - ESRGAN, neural network upscaler with a lot of third party models
    - SwinIR and Swin2SR([see here](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/pull/2092)), neural network upscalers
    - LDSR, Latent diffusion super resolution upscaling
- Resizing aspect ratio options
- Sampling method selection
    - Adjust sampler eta values (noise multiplier)
    - More advanced noise setting options
- Interrupt processing at any time
- 4GB video card support (also reports of 2GB working)
- Correct seeds for batches
- Live prompt token length validation
- Generation parameters
     - parameters you used to generate images are saved with that image
     - in PNG chunks for PNG, in EXIF for JPEG
     - can drag the image to PNG info tab to restore generation parameters and automatically copy them into UI
     - can be disabled in settings
     - drag and drop an image/text-parameters to promptbox
- Read Generation Parameters Button, loads parameters in promptbox to UI
- Settings page
- Running arbitrary python code from UI (must run with --allow-code to enable)
- Mouseover hints for most UI elements
- Possible to change defaults/mix/max/step values for UI elements via text config
- Random artist button
- Tiling support, a checkbox to create images that can be tiled like textures
- Progress bar and live image generation preview
- Negative prompt, an extra text field that allows you to list what you don't want to see in generated image
- Styles, a way to save part of prompt and easily apply them via dropdown later
- Variations, a way to generate same image but with tiny differences
- Seed resizing, a way to generate same image but at slightly different resolution
- CLIP interrogator, a button that tries to guess prompt from an image
- Prompt Editing, a way to change prompt mid-generation, say to start making a watermelon and switch to anime girl midway
- Batch Processing, process a group of files using img2img
- Img2img Alternative, reverse Euler method of cross attention control
- Highres Fix, a convenience option to produce high resolution pictures in one click without usual distortions
- Reloading checkpoints on the fly
- Checkpoint Merger, a tab that allows you to merge up to 3 checkpoints into one
- [Custom scripts](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Custom-Scripts) with many extensions from community
- [Composable-Diffusion](https://energy-based-model.github.io/Compositional-Visual-Generation-with-Composable-Diffusion-Models/), a way to use multiple prompts at once
     - separate prompts using uppercase `AND`
     - also supports weights for prompts: `a cat :1.2 AND a dog AND a penguin :2.2`
- No token limit for prompts (original stable diffusion lets you use up to 75 tokens)
- DeepDanbooru integration, creates danbooru style tags for anime prompts (add --deepdanbooru to commandline args)
- [xformers](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Xformers), major speed increase for select cards: (add --xformers to commandline args)
- History tab: view, direct and delete images conveniently within the UI
- Generate forever option
- Training tab
     - hypernetworks and embeddings options
     - Preprocessing images: cropping, mirroring, autotagging using BLIP or deepdanbooru (for anime)
- Clip skip
- Use Hypernetworks
- Use VAEs
- Estimated completion time in progress bar
- API
- Support for dedicated [inpainting model](https://github.com/runwayml/stable-diffusion#inpainting-with-stable-diffusion) by RunwayML. 
- via extension: [Aesthetic Gradients](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui-aesthetic-gradients), a way to generate images with a specific aesthetic by using clip images embds (implementation of [https://github.com/vicgalle/stable-diffusion-aesthetic-gradients](https://github.com/vicgalle/stable-diffusion-aesthetic-gradients))

## Installation and Running
Make sure the required [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) are met and follow the instructions available for both [NVidia](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Install-and-Run-on-NVidia-GPUs) (recommended) and [AMD](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Install-and-Run-on-AMD-GPUs) GPUs.

Alternatively, use online services (like Google Colab):

- [List of Online Services](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Online-Services)

### Automatic Installation on Windows
1. Install [Python 3.10.6](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/), checking "Add Python to PATH"
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.com/download/win).
3. Download the stable-diffusion-webui repository, for example by running `git clone https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui.git`.
4. Place `model.ckpt` in the `models` directory (see [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) for where to get it).
5. _*(Optional)*_ Place `GFPGANv1.4.pth` in the base directory, alongside `webui.py` (see [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) for where to get it).
6. Run `webui-user.bat` from Windows Explorer as normal, non-administrator, user.

### Automatic Installation on Linux
1. Install the dependencies:
```bash
# Debian-based:
sudo apt install wget git python3 python3-venv
# Red Hat-based:
sudo dnf install wget git python3
# Arch-based:
sudo pacman -S wget git python3
```
2. To install in `/home/$(whoami)/stable-diffusion-webui/`, run:
```bash
bash <(wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/master/webui.sh)
```

### Installation on Apple Silicon

Find the instructions [here](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Installation-on-Apple-Silicon).

## Contributing
Here's how to add code to this repo: [Contributing](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Contributing)

## Documentation
The documentation was moved from this README over to the project's [wiki](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki).

## Credits
- Stable Diffusion - https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion, https://github.com/CompVis/taming-transformers
- k-diffusion - https://github.com/crowsonkb/k-diffusion.git
- GFPGAN - https://github.com/TencentARC/GFPGAN.git
- CodeFormer - https://github.com/sczhou/CodeFormer
- ESRGAN - https://github.com/xinntao/ESRGAN
- SwinIR - https://github.com/JingyunLiang/SwinIR
- Swin2SR - https://github.com/mv-lab/swin2sr
- LDSR - https://github.com/Hafiidz/latent-diffusion
- Ideas for optimizations - https://github.com/basujindal/stable-diffusion
- Doggettx - Cross Attention layer optimization - https://github.com/Doggettx/stable-diffusion, original idea for prompt editing.
- InvokeAI, lstein - Cross Attention layer optimization - https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI (originally http://github.com/lstein/stable-diffusion)
- Rinon Gal - Textual Inversion - https://github.com/rinongal/textual_inversion (we're not using his code, but we are using his ideas).
- Idea for SD upscale - https://github.com/jquesnelle/txt2imghd
- Noise generation for outpainting mk2 - https://github.com/parlance-zz/g-diffuser-bot
- CLIP interrogator idea and borrowing some code - https://github.com/pharmapsychotic/clip-interrogator
- Idea for Composable Diffusion - https://github.com/energy-based-model/Compositional-Visual-Generation-with-Composable-Diffusion-Models-PyTorch
- xformers - https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers
- DeepDanbooru - interrogator for anime diffusers https://github.com/KichangKim/DeepDanbooru
- Initial Gradio script - posted on 4chan by an Anonymous user. Thank you Anonymous user.
- (You)

Commit message:

updated readme with info about Aesthetic Gradients

README.md, after:

# Stable Diffusion web UI
A browser interface based on Gradio library for Stable Diffusion.

![](txt2img_Screenshot.png)

Check the [custom scripts](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Custom-Scripts) wiki page for extra scripts developed by users.

## Features
[Detailed feature showcase with images](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Features):
- Original txt2img and img2img modes
- One click install and run script (but you still must install python and git)
- Outpainting
- Inpainting
- Color Sketch
- Prompt Matrix
- Stable Diffusion Upscale
- Attention, specify parts of text that the model should pay more attention to
    - a man in a ((tuxedo)) - will pay more attention to tuxedo
    - a man in a (tuxedo:1.21) - alternative syntax
    - select text and press ctrl+up or ctrl+down to automatically adjust attention to selected text (code contributed by anonymous user)
- Loopback, run img2img processing multiple times
- X/Y plot, a way to draw a 2 dimensional plot of images with different parameters
- Textual Inversion
    - have as many embeddings as you want and use any names you like for them
    - use multiple embeddings with different numbers of vectors per token
    - works with half precision floating point numbers
    - train embeddings on 8GB (also reports of 6GB working)
- Extras tab with:
    - GFPGAN, neural network that fixes faces
    - CodeFormer, face restoration tool as an alternative to GFPGAN
    - RealESRGAN, neural network upscaler
    - ESRGAN, neural network upscaler with a lot of third party models
    - SwinIR and Swin2SR([see here](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/pull/2092)), neural network upscalers
    - LDSR, Latent diffusion super resolution upscaling
- Resizing aspect ratio options
- Sampling method selection
    - Adjust sampler eta values (noise multiplier)
    - More advanced noise setting options
- Interrupt processing at any time
- 4GB video card support (also reports of 2GB working)
- Correct seeds for batches
- Live prompt token length validation
- Generation parameters
     - parameters you used to generate images are saved with that image
     - in PNG chunks for PNG, in EXIF for JPEG
     - can drag the image to PNG info tab to restore generation parameters and automatically copy them into UI
     - can be disabled in settings
     - drag and drop an image/text-parameters to promptbox
- Read Generation Parameters Button, loads parameters in promptbox to UI
- Settings page
- Running arbitrary python code from UI (must run with --allow-code to enable)
- Mouseover hints for most UI elements
- Possible to change defaults/mix/max/step values for UI elements via text config
- Random artist button
- Tiling support, a checkbox to create images that can be tiled like textures
- Progress bar and live image generation preview
- Negative prompt, an extra text field that allows you to list what you don't want to see in generated image
- Styles, a way to save part of prompt and easily apply them via dropdown later
- Variations, a way to generate same image but with tiny differences
- Seed resizing, a way to generate same image but at slightly different resolution
- CLIP interrogator, a button that tries to guess prompt from an image
- Prompt Editing, a way to change prompt mid-generation, say to start making a watermelon and switch to anime girl midway
- Batch Processing, process a group of files using img2img
- Img2img Alternative, reverse Euler method of cross attention control
- Highres Fix, a convenience option to produce high resolution pictures in one click without usual distortions
- Reloading checkpoints on the fly
- Checkpoint Merger, a tab that allows you to merge up to 3 checkpoints into one
- [Custom scripts](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Custom-Scripts) with many extensions from community
- [Composable-Diffusion](https://energy-based-model.github.io/Compositional-Visual-Generation-with-Composable-Diffusion-Models/), a way to use multiple prompts at once
     - separate prompts using uppercase `AND`
     - also supports weights for prompts: `a cat :1.2 AND a dog AND a penguin :2.2`
- No token limit for prompts (original stable diffusion lets you use up to 75 tokens)
- DeepDanbooru integration, creates danbooru style tags for anime prompts (add --deepdanbooru to commandline args)
- [xformers](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Xformers), major speed increase for select cards: (add --xformers to commandline args)
- History tab: view, direct and delete images conveniently within the UI
- Generate forever option
- Training tab
     - hypernetworks and embeddings options
     - Preprocessing images: cropping, mirroring, autotagging using BLIP or deepdanbooru (for anime)
- Clip skip
- Use Hypernetworks
- Use VAEs
- Estimated completion time in progress bar
- API
- Support for dedicated [inpainting model](https://github.com/runwayml/stable-diffusion#inpainting-with-stable-diffusion) by RunwayML. 
- via extension: [Aesthetic Gradients](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui-aesthetic-gradients), a way to generate images with a specific aesthetic by using clip images embds (implementation of [https://github.com/vicgalle/stable-diffusion-aesthetic-gradients](https://github.com/vicgalle/stable-diffusion-aesthetic-gradients))

## Where are Aesthetic Gradients?!?!
Aesthetic Gradients are now an extension. You can install it using git:

```commandline
git clone https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui-aesthetic-gradients extensions/aesthetic-gradients
```

After running this command, make sure that you have `aesthetic-gradients` dir in webui's `extensions` directory and restart
the UI. The interface for Aesthetic Gradients should appear exactly the same as it was.

## Installation and Running
Make sure the required [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) are met and follow the instructions available for both [NVidia](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Install-and-Run-on-NVidia-GPUs) (recommended) and [AMD](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Install-and-Run-on-AMD-GPUs) GPUs.

Alternatively, use online services (like Google Colab):

- [List of Online Services](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Online-Services)

### Automatic Installation on Windows
1. Install [Python 3.10.6](https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/), checking "Add Python to PATH"
2. Install [git](https://git-scm.com/download/win).
3. Download the stable-diffusion-webui repository, for example by running `git clone https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui.git`.
4. Place `model.ckpt` in the `models` directory (see [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) for where to get it).
5. _*(Optional)*_ Place `GFPGANv1.4.pth` in the base directory, alongside `webui.py` (see [dependencies](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Dependencies) for where to get it).
6. Run `webui-user.bat` from Windows Explorer as normal, non-administrator, user.

### Automatic Installation on Linux
1. Install the dependencies:
```bash
# Debian-based:
sudo apt install wget git python3 python3-venv
# Red Hat-based:
sudo dnf install wget git python3
# Arch-based:
sudo pacman -S wget git python3
```
2. To install in `/home/$(whoami)/stable-diffusion-webui/`, run:
```bash
bash <(wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/master/webui.sh)
```

### Installation on Apple Silicon

Find the instructions [here](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Installation-on-Apple-Silicon).

## Contributing
Here's how to add code to this repo: [Contributing](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki/Contributing)

## Documentation
The documentation was moved from this README over to the project's [wiki](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui/wiki).

## Credits
- Stable Diffusion - https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion, https://github.com/CompVis/taming-transformers
- k-diffusion - https://github.com/crowsonkb/k-diffusion.git
- GFPGAN - https://github.com/TencentARC/GFPGAN.git
- CodeFormer - https://github.com/sczhou/CodeFormer
- ESRGAN - https://github.com/xinntao/ESRGAN
- SwinIR - https://github.com/JingyunLiang/SwinIR
- Swin2SR - https://github.com/mv-lab/swin2sr
- LDSR - https://github.com/Hafiidz/latent-diffusion
- Ideas for optimizations - https://github.com/basujindal/stable-diffusion
- Doggettx - Cross Attention layer optimization - https://github.com/Doggettx/stable-diffusion, original idea for prompt editing.
- InvokeAI, lstein - Cross Attention layer optimization - https://github.com/invoke-ai/InvokeAI (originally http://github.com/lstein/stable-diffusion)
- Rinon Gal - Textual Inversion - https://github.com/rinongal/textual_inversion (we're not using his code, but we are using his ideas).
- Idea for SD upscale - https://github.com/jquesnelle/txt2imghd
- Noise generation for outpainting mk2 - https://github.com/parlance-zz/g-diffuser-bot
- CLIP interrogator idea and borrowing some code - https://github.com/pharmapsychotic/clip-interrogator
- Idea for Composable Diffusion - https://github.com/energy-based-model/Compositional-Visual-Generation-with-Composable-Diffusion-Models-PyTorch
- xformers - https://github.com/facebookresearch/xformers
- DeepDanbooru - interrogator for anime diffusers https://github.com/KichangKim/DeepDanbooru
- Initial Gradio script - posted on 4chan by an Anonymous user. Thank you Anonymous user.
- (You)
